Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I'm very happy to have on this program today
with me a very good friend of mine and one of our ableist and most progressive and hard-hitting
senators.
A senator from Texas, Mr. Ralph, Senator Ralph Yarbrough, and thank you very much Ralph for
coming and being with us today.
Thank you, Senator.
Keep all for this opportunity to be on your program.
We've watched your record for years and the House of Representatives where TVA was being
set up since you've been in the Senate, your crime investigations, your investigation
of monopoly, the high price of steel, the high price of drugs, all of the many services
you've rendered to American people.
I know Ralph and I just want everybody to understand.
I didn't put you up to this.
I know the ground rules.
You're not supposed to brag on the man when you own his program, but as this I'm breaking
the rules because I think this is important and I just want to say it.
I made a number of speeches for you in Texas in 1956 when you were running for Vice President
on the Democratic Ticket and I'm proud of everyone.
Well, you're certainly a dad and I appreciated you helping us too.
Ralph, incidentally, a lot of your people come from Tennessee, don't they?
Oh, yes.
My grandfather was born in Tennessee.
My paternal grandfather, Yarbrough, and from the old age pension records, social security
and others, all the records we have, we know that more people have come to Texas from Tennessee
than from any other state in the Union.
That's right.
Left there by Sam Houston, David Crockett, and many other Tennessee heroes who led the
westward march of the American people into Texas.
Well, there's always been a very close relationship between the State of Texas and the State of Tennessee.
But friends, I've asked Senator Yarbrough here today to talk with him about federal,
talk with you about federal aid for education.
He was one of the 빼s of the chief sponsors of the bill that we passed in the United States
Senate, which is now pending in the House.
I've just returned from Tennessee and I saw a lot of teachers, school people, and they
are all interested in this subject.
I thought Senator Yarbrough would be a mighty good senator who is very conversant with
it to tell us about it.
What tell us about the bill we got passed in the Senate, Ralph, and the need for it?
Well, first of all, what is the situation today with reference to classrooms and teachers?
Well, Estes, we have a shortage in the United States of about 135,000 trained school teachers
and a shortage of about 140,000 classrooms.
Now, that doesn't consider the million, 800,000 pupils who are in obsolete classrooms or
crowded classrooms, too small, jammed up fire hazards.
This is just classrooms where they're having to have two classes a day.
Some students go to school half a day, some in the morning, some in the afternoon, which
is a per system of education for the children.
I believe the census will give us about 180 million people when it's completed.
And I think it's estimated that 10 years and now we'll have better than 210 million
people in the United States.
Isn't that correct, Ralph?
That's correct.
In the cost of the classrooms, it's increasing.
They tax burden for building these school buildings on the local homeowner and the local
people has just about reached the limit.
And to keep up this proper educational system, we've got to find new sources of tax revenue.
Well, the future of our country depends upon the education of our youth, of course.
Now, what does the bill provide in the way of granting aid to the states?
They bill that passed in the Senate provides for a billion, nine hundred million dollars
spent over two years with an optional provision.
They share for the state.
The Tennessee would be over twenty five million dollars a year.
It is given to the state on an option.
The state might spend it either for school buildings or for supplements to teach your pay
or for any combination that the state wants.
Well, we would get twenty five million a year in Tennessee.
And it's also based upon the need of the state.
And how much would Tennessee taxpayers have to contribute to that?
About two and three quarter million.
They don't need, in my state, for example, we would get sixty two million, the most of
any state, but we have to contribute twelve million, some twenty percent.
Based on need in Tennessee, they would contribute about twelve percent.
And there are no federal strings attached.
There's purely a grant in the age of the states to be spent either for supplementing teacher
salaries or for construction of schools.
Is that correct?
Absolutely.
Essentially keep over there.
No federal strings on it.
No federal control.
Senator Lister Hill of Alabama is chairman of the Labor and Public Well Fire Committee.
They've brought the bill out.
Senator Hill has provisions written in there.
All of us do to protect our state.
Thank you very much, Senator Yarbren.
That's all for now, ladies and gentlemen.